hamas's political leader says they are
close to reaching a truce agreement with
Israel in a statement ishmail hania says
Hamas has delivered its response to the
potential deal to Qatari negotiators
Qatar has been mediating the release of
captives held by its armed Wing in Gaza
let's take a look at the number of
captives Israel says were taken by Hamas
Fighters Israel says at least
237 people were taken during the October
7th attack by Hamas they include
Nationals from more than 40 countries
and at least 20 Thai Farm Workers the
Israeli government says 33 of them are
children Hamas has released four of them
an Israeli Army says one was released
during an operation in Gaza Israel says
the bodies of two female captives were
recovered near the al-shifa hospital
complex well earlier US President Joe
Biden said he believes a deal to release
captives held by Hamas is close our
White House correspondent Kimberly hulit
has more from Washington
DC US President Joe Biden on Monday
confirming that a deal to secure the
release of captives is closed this after
days of speculation that an agreement
had been reached but National Security
spokesperson John Kirby confirming that
the details are still being worked out
what we know is that this agreement
could involve a pause in fighting for
several days in order to secure the
release of dozens of captives it would
also allow for stepped up and much
needed humanitarian Aid if you're going
to secure the release of hostages and we
certainly hope we're going to be able to
do that soon you got to make sure they
can get from where they are to safety
and do that as safely as possible which
means you're going to have to have at
least a temporary localized stop in the
fighting to allow them to move I mean we
also can't take for granted that all
these people are easily mobile and don't
have some sort of health issues that
require perhaps a slower route out or
assistance getting out so um I don't
again I don't want to negotiate in
public but uh but we we believe we're
getting closer John Kirby also
confirming to Al jazer for the second
time in roughly a week senior White
House advisor Amos Hawkin is in Israel
meeting with senior officials
specifically the National Security
adviser as well as the defense minister
the goal of the meeting is to try and
prevent a broader war between Israel and
Lebanon the concern that there could be
the risk of a second Northern front
there will also be meetings with
Lebanese officials as well the fear is
is that Israel because of its military
activity inside Lebanon may be trying to
provoke Hezbollah into a wider conflict
that could potentially even draw in the
United States as a result the goal of
these meetings again to try and send a
strong message of deterrence Kimberly
hit Al jazer the White House well for
more on this let's speak to Sara hit she
joins us live from occupied East
Jerusalem so Sarah it does appeal appear
that a deal is growing ever closer what
are you hearing from the the Israeli
side good morning Laura well it seems
that everything is indicating in all the
players that are involved are indicating
that this is imminent and it's due to
happen however uh despite Israeli media
reporting that Israel has given the
green light uh to go ahead with this
potential deal uh you have uh Hamas
seemingly saying that it potentially
might happen in a few hours uh whereas
uh the Israeli media is reporting that
it could be potentially happening in a
few days so maybe the timing is slightly
different as far as we know uh however
still no details revealed whatsoever
what we do know is that the families of
those held captive in a huge meeting
with the war cabinet overnight uh
discussed potentially uh some of that
information that hasn't been privy to
the public just yet it was behind closed
doors at the foreign Ministry uh in Tel
Aviv uh and they came out because they
had been demanding answers from their
government as to what the latest
situation is in terms of the
negotiations that have been happening
via the US Qatar and Egypt they came out
saying that they couldn't share that
information with the media they didn't
seem to be happy with the results
emphasizing that prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu had been focusing mostly uh on
uh the fact that uh uh uh carrying out
this war against Hamas and eliminating
Hamas was as equally as important as
bringing back those captives however the
families have been saying time and time
again and protesting we've seen protests
we've seen marches with them saying that
bringing back the captives alive should
be absolutely Paramount in terms of the
details it's still not 100% clear just
yet because nothing has been sheded but
there have been talks of a possible 5day
pause uh and potentially the release of
well we've seen different reports about
50 they've said women and children
Israeli captiv women and children uh uh
and in in exchange for the release of
Palestinian women and children held in
detention by Israel uh but there are
also talks that potentially it could be
all of the uh women and children
captives so those details are probably
is what has taken so long in the last
few days to iron out but it seems that a
deal is potentially imminent very soon
okay and we'll certainly keep an eye on
uh announcements about a deal and of
course the details as they get excuse me
as they get announced there has been
huge pressure hasn't there be on
Benjamin Netanyahu and the war cabinet
to secure the release of these
hostages yeah that's right Laura um as I
was just saying there that that meeting
that happened overnight uh initially
what we saw uh was uh uh these families
that had demanded a meeting with prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu and in the
entire War cabinet they didn't want to
just meet one individual or two they
wanted their entirity to be there and
this came off the back of a March that
had thousands of Israelis marching with
families of captives all the way from T
Tel Aviv earlier this week uh to uh
Jerusalem which took them an incredible
5 days many of them said they weren't
just physically uh fatigued but of
course emotionally fatigued as well many
of them them had family members killed
on October 7 and then also those are
held captive so um they be they've been
pushing for answers to their questions
they said they don't know if the
government even is aware of the
whereabouts of those captives that are
being held and what what the condition
is another demand they've been making uh
recently is uh asking for U medical
staff from uh uh the who from the World
Health Organization along with several
other uh entities like the Red Cross in
Gaza to be able to find out if it's
possible to check on them because a lot
of those held captive are without
medication especially those where it's
essential to their survival the biggest
fear for them has been from day one is
that their relatives are killed in air
strikes and for them they said that if
it's up to them they would accept any
form of uh deal as long as it means that
it brings all of them and they want all
of them back at the same time Sarah H
join the latest from occupied East
Jerusalem thanks very much Sara